---
title: Spring- Stereotype Annotations
permalink: "/spring/stereotype-annotations"
key: spring-stereotype-annotations
categories:
- Spring
tags:
- Spring
---

Spring -Stereotype Annotations
=========================

Spring provides 4 stereotype annotations:
- `@Component`
- `@Repository`
- `@Service`
- `@Controller`


**@Component** This is a generic annotation and can be applied to any class of
the application to make it a spring managed component(simply, the generic
stereotype for any spring managed component).

When the classpath is scanned by
the spring’s component-scan **(@ComponentScan)** feature, it will identify the
classes annotated with **@Component** annotation (within the given package) and
create the beans of such classes and register them in the
ApplicationContext.

**@Component** is a class level annotation and its purpose
is to make the class as spring managed component and auto-detectable bean for
classpath scanning feature

| **ANNOTATION**   | **USE** | **DESCRIPTION**                                                                                                                                                       |
|------------------|---------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **@Component**  | Type    | Generic stereotype annotation for any Spring-managed component.                                                                                                       |
| **@Controller** | Type    | Stereotypes a component as a Spring MVC controller.                                                                                                                   |
| **@Repository** | Type    | Stereotypes a component as a repository. Also indicates that SQLExceptions thrown from the component's methods should be translated into Spring DataAccessExceptions. |
| **@Service**    | Type    | Stereotypes a component as a service.                                                                                                                                 |

@Component (and @Service and @Repository) are used to auto-detect and
auto-configure beans using classpath scanning.

-   @Component is a generic stereotype for any Spring-managed component. 

-   @Repository, @Service, and @Controller are specializations
    of @Component for more specific use cases, for example, in the persistence,
    service, and presentation layers, respectively.

-   Therefore, you can annotate your component classes with @Component, but by
    annotating them with @Repository, @Service, or @Controller instead, your
    classes are more properly suited for processing by tools or associating with
    aspects.

-   For example, these stereotype annotations make ideal targets for pointcuts.
    It is also possible that @Repository, @Service, and @Controller may carry
    additional semantics in future releases of the Spring Framework.

-   Thus, if you are choosing between using @Component or @Service for your
    service layer, @Service is clearly the better choice. Similarly, as stated
    above, @Repository is already supported as a marker for automatic exception
    translation in your persistence layer.



### @Bean vs @Componenet

1.  @Component **auto detects** and configures the beans using classpath
    scanning whereas @Bean **explicitly declares** a single bean, rather than
    letting Spring do it automatically.

2.  @Component **does not decouple** the declaration of the bean from the class
    definition where as @Bean **decouples** the declaration of the bean from
    the class definition.

3.  @Component is a **class level annotation** where as @Bean is a **method
    level annotation** and name of the method serves as the bean name.

4.  @Component **need not to be used with the @Configuration** annotation
    where as @Bean annotation has to be **used within the class which is
    annotated with @Configuration**.

5.  We **cannot create a bean** of a class using @Component, if the class is
    outside spring container whereas we **can create a bean** of a class using
    @Bean even if the class is present **outside the spring container**.

6.  @Component has **different specializations** like @Controller,
    @Repository and @Service whereas @Bean has **no specializations**.



### Context Configuration Annotations

**1.@Profile**  
The Spring @Profile allow developers to register beans by condition. For
example load a database properties file based on the application running in
development, test, staging or production environment.
```java
@Target(ElementType.TYPE)
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
@Profile("production")
public @interface Production {
}

@Target(ElementType.TYPE)
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME)
@Profile("development")
public @interface Production {
}
```


**2.@Import annotation**  
Normally, you will [split a large Spring XML bean
files](http://www.mkyong.com/spring/load-multiple-spring-bean-configuration-file/) into
multiple small files, group by module or category, to make things more
maintainable and modular. For example,
```xml
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
	http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-2.5.xsd">
 
	<import resource="config/customer.xml"/>
    <import resource="config/scheduler.xml"/>
 
</beans>
```


**3. @ImportResource**  
We can **import XML configurations** with this annotation. We can specify the
XML file locations with the *locations* argument, or with its alias,
the *value* argument:
```java
@Configuration
@ImportResource("classpath:/annotations.xml")
class VehicleFactoryConfig {}
```



***4.@PropertySource***  
With this annotation, we can **define property files for application settings**.
*@PropertySource* leverages the Java 8 repeating annotations feature, which
means we can mark a class with it multiple times:
```java
@Configuration
@PropertySource("classpath:/annotations.properties")
@PropertySource("classpath:/vehicle-factory.properties")
class VehicleFactoryConfig {}
```


***5.@PropertySources***  
We can use this annotation to specify
multiple *@PropertySource *configurations:
```java
@Configuration
@PropertySources({ 
    @PropertySource("classpath:/annotations.properties"),
    @PropertySource("classpath:/vehicle-factory.properties")
})
class VehicleFactoryConfig {}
```
