---
title: Spring MVC -HandlerMapping
permalink: "/spring/spring-mvc-handlermapping"
key: spring-spring-mvc-handlermapping
categories:
- Spring
tags:
- Spring
---

Spring MVC - HandlerMapping
=============================

When the request is received by **DispatcherServlet, DispatcherServlet** **asks
HandlerMapping for Controller class** name for the current request.
HandlerMapping will returns controller class name to DispatcherServlet.

**HandlerMapping** is an Interface to be implemented by objects that define a
mapping between requests and handler objects. By **default**, DispatcherServlet
uses **BeanNameUrlHandlerMapping** and **DefaultAnnotationHandlerMapping**. In
Spring we majorly use the below handler mappings

-   **BeanNameUrlHandlerMapping**

-   **ControllerClassNameHandlerMapping**

-   **SimpleUrlHandlerMapping**


<br>

### 1.BeanNameUrlHandlerMapping

**BeanNameUrlHandlerMapping** is the default handler mapping mechanism, which
maps **URL requests to the name of the beans**
```xml
//File : hello-servlet.xml
<beans>
	<bean class="org.springframework.web.servlet.handler.BeanNameUrlHandlerMapping" />
	
	<bean name="/add.htm" class="controller.AddController" />
	<bean name="/update.htm" class="controller.UpdateController" />
	<bean name="/get*.htm" class="controller.GetController" />
</beans>
```

In above example, If URI pattern

-   **/add.htm** is requested, DispatcherServlet will forward the request to
    “AddController“.

-   **/update.htm** is requested, DispatcherServlet will forward the request to
    “UpdateController“.

-   **/getOneStudent.htm** or **/get{any thing}.htm** is requested,
    DispatcherServlet will forward the request to the “GetController“



### 2. ControllerClassNameHandlerMapping 

**ControllerClassNameHandlerMapping** use convention to map requested URL to
Controller (convention over configuration). It takes the Class name, remove the
‘Controller’ suffix if exists and return the remaining text, lower-cased and
with a leading “/".

By default, Spring MVC is using the BeanNameUrlHandlerMapping handler mapping.
To enable the **ControllerClassNameHandlerMapping**, declared it in the bean
configuration file, and now **the controller’s bean’s name is no longer
required**
```xml
//File : hello-servlet.xml
<beans>
<bean class="org.springframework.web.servlet.mvc.support.ControllerClassNameHandlerMapping" />

	<bean class="controller.WelcomeController" />
	<bean class="controller.HelloGuestController" />
</beans>
```

Now, Spring MVC is mapping the requested URL by following conventions :
```xml
WelcomeController -> /welcome*
HelloGuestController -> /helloguest*
```


-   /welcome.htm –> WelcomeController.

-   /welcomeHome.htm –> WelcomeController.

-   /helloguest.htm –> HelloGuestController.

-   /helloguest12345.htm –> HelloGuestController.

-   /helloGuest.htm, failed to map **/helloguest\***, the “g" case is not match.

To solve the case sensitive issue stated above, declared the “**caseSensitive**"
property and set it to true.
```xml
<bean class="org.springframework.web.servlet.mvc.support.ControllerClassNameHandlerMapping" >
       <property name="caseSensitive" value="true" />
  </bean>
```




### 3. SimpleUrlHandlerMapping

**SimpleUrlHandlerMapping** is the most flexible handler mapping class, which
allow developer to specify the mapping of URL pattern and handlers explicitly

The property keys are the URL patterns while the property values are the handler
IDs or names.
```xml
<beans>
	<bean class="org.springframework.web.servlet.handler.SimpleUrlHandlerMapping">
 <property name="mappings">
 	<props>
  <prop key="/welcome.htm">welcomeController</prop>
  <prop key="/*/welcome.htm">welcomeController</prop>
  <prop key="/helloGuest.htm">helloGuestController</prop>
 	</props>
 </property>
	</bean>
	<bean id="welcomeController" class="controller.WelcomeController" />
	<bean id="helloGuestController" class="controller.HelloGuestController" />
</beans>
```


-   /welcome.htm –> welcomeController.

-   /{anything}/welcome.htm –> welcomeController.

-   /helloGuest.htm –> helloGuestController.
