---
title: TypeScript Tutorial
permalink: "/tutorials/typescript-tutorial"
key: typescript-tutorial
categories:
- TypeScript
tags:
- TypeScript
---



## Introduction to TypeScript

TypeScript is a typed superset of JavaScript that compiles to plain JavaScript.
TypeScript is pure object-oriented with classes, interfaces and statically typed
programming languages like [C\#](#). It requires a compiler to
compile and generate in JavaScript file. Basically, TypeScript is the ES6
version of JavaScript with some additional features.

A TypeScript code is written in a file with **.ts extension** and then compiled
into JavaScript using the compiler.

You can write the file in any code editor and the compiler needs to be installed
on your platform. After the installation, the command **tsc \<filename\>.ts**
compiles the TypeScript code into a plain JavaScript file.

**Syntax:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
var message:string = "Welcome to satyacodes!"
console.log(message)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On compiling, it generates the following JavaScript code:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var message = "Welcome to satyacodes!";
console.log(message);
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Features of TypeScript

**features - typescript tutorial - satyacodes**

![features - typescript tutorial -
satyacodes](media/cc5b5a2a3d3527e6bf2682eb804e693e.png)

-   **Cross-Platform:** The TypeScript compiler can be installed on any
    Operating System such as Windows, MacOS and Linux.

-   **Object-Oriented Language**: TypeScript provides features like
    [Classes](#), Interfaces, and
    Modules. Thus, it can write object-oriented code for client-side as well as
    server-side development.

-   **Static type-checking**: TypeScript uses static typing and helps type
    checking at compile time. Thus, you can find errors while writing the code
    without running the script.

-   **Optional Static Typing**: TypeScript also allows optional static typing in
    case you are using the dynamic typing of JavaScript.

-   **DOM Manipulation**: You can use TypeScript to manipulate the DOM for
    adding or removing elements.

-   **ES 6 Features**: TypeScript includes most features of planned ECMAScript
    2015 (ES 6, 7) such as class, interface, Arrow functions, etc.

### Advantages of Using TypeScript

-   TypeScript is **fast, simple, easy to learn** and runs on any browser or
    JavaScript engine.

-   It is **similar** to **JavaScript** and uses the same syntax and semantics.

-   This helps backend developers write front-end **code faster**.

-   TypeScript code can be called from an **existing JavaScript code**. Also, it
    works with existing JavaScript frameworks and libraries without any issues.

-   The Definition file, with .d.ts extension, provides support for existing
    JavaScript libraries like **Jquery, D3.js**, etc. So, TypeScript code can
    add [JavaScript
    libraries](https://www.satyacodes/blog/javascript-libraries/) using type
    definitions to avail the benefits of type-checking, code autocompletion, and
    documentation in existing dynamically-typed JavaScript libraries.

-   It includes features from **ES6** and **ES7** that can run in ES5-level
    JavaScript engines like
    [Node.js](https://www.satyacodes/).

Now that you have understood what is TypeScript, let’s move on with this
TypeScript Tutorial and have a look at the different types.


<br>

## TypeScript Types

The Type System represents the different types of values supported by the
language. It checks the **validity** of the supplied **values** before they are
stored or manipulated by the program.

![types of typescript - typescript tutorial -
satyacodes](media/6ed498daee792cc7b3dd38f4852d6913.png)

It can be classified into two types such as:

-   **Built-in**: This includes **number, string, boolean, void, null and
    undefined**.

-   **User-defined**: It includes **enums, classes, interfaces, arrays, and
    tuple.**

Now let’s move on with this TypeScript Tutorial and understand more about
variables.



<br>



##  Variables

A variable is a named space in the memory which is used to store values.

The type syntax for declaring a variable in TypeScript includes a colon **(:)**
after the variable name, followed by its type.

Similar to JavaScript, we use the [var
keyword](https://www.satyacodes/blog/javascript-variable/) to declare a
variable.

There are four options when we declare a variable:

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
var [identifier] : [type-annotation] = value;
var [identifier] : [type-annotation];
var [identifier] = value;
var [identifier];
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Example:**

```javascript
var name:string = "Daisy";
var empid:number = 1001;
console.log("name"+name)
console.log("employee id "+empid)


On compiling, it will generate following JavaScript code:

//Generated by typescript 1.8.10
var name = "Daisy";
var empid = 1001;
console.log("name" + name);
console.log("employee id: " + empid);
```


**Output:**

`name:Daisy`  
`employee id:1001`

Now let’s move on to the next topic of our TypeScript Tutorial.


<br>



## Loops

There may be situations when a block of code needs to be executed several
numbers of times. A [loop](https://www.satyacodes/blog/javascript-loops/)
statement allows us to execute a statement or group of statements multiple
times.

The TypeScript loops can be classified as:

![loops - typescript tutorial -
satyacodes](media/03ccb34ff179eaa7480dacfe45760faf.png)

### For Loop

The [for loop](https://www.satyacodes/blog/javascript-foreach/) is an
implementation of a definite loop.

**Syntax:**
```javascript
for (first expression; second expression; third expression ) {

// statements to be executed repeatedly

}
```


Here, the first expression is executed before the loop starts. The second
expression is the condition for the loop to execute. And the third expression is
executed after the execution of every code block.

**Example:**
```javascript
for (let i = 0; i \< 2; i++) {

    console.log ("Execute block statement" + i);

}
```


**Output:**

`Execute block statement 0 Execute block statement 1`

### While Loop

The while loop executes the instructions each time the condition specified
evaluates to true.

**Syntax:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
while (condition expression) {
// code block to be executed
}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
let i: number = 1;

while (i < 3) {
console.log( "Block statement execution no." + i )
i++;
}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Output:**

`Block statement execution no.1 Block statement execution no.2`


<br>



## Functions

In JavaScript, [functions](https://www.satyacodes/blog/javascript-functions/)
are one of the most important part as it is a functional programming language.

Functions ensure that the program is maintainable and reusable, and organized
into readable blocks. While TypeScript provides the concept of classes and
modules, functions still are an integral part of the language.  
  
  
### Named Functions

A named function is used to declare and call a function by its given name.

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
function display() {
console.log("TypeScript Function");
}

display();
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Output:**

`TypeScript Function`

### Anonymous Function

An anonymous function is one which is defined as an expression. This expression
is stored in a variable. These functions are invoked using the variable name
that the function is stored in.

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
let greeting = function() {
console.log("TypeScript Function");
};

greeting();
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Output:**

`TypeScript Function`

### Arrow Function

Fat arrow notations are used for anonymous functions i.e for function
expressions. They are also called lambda functions in other languages.

**Syntax:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
(param1, param2, ..., paramN) => expression
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Using the fat arrow (=\>) drops the need to use the ‘function’ keyword.
Parameters are passed in the angular brackets \<\>, and the function expression
is enclosed within the curly brackets {}.

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
let sum = (x: number, y: number): number => {
return x + y;
}

sum(10, 30); //returns 40
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

### Function Overloading

TypeScript provides the concept of function overloading. Thus, you can have
multiple functions with the same name but different parameter types and return
type.

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
function add(a:string, b:string):string;
function add(a:number, b:number): number;
return a + b;
}
add("Hello ", "satyacodes"); // returns "Hello satyacodes"
add(10, 10); // returns 20
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the above example, we have the same function add() with two function
declarations and one function implementation. The first signature has two
parameters of type string, whereas the second signature has two parameters of
the type number.

These are the different types of functions. Now, let’s move on with our
TypeScript Tutorial and understand strings in TypeScript.



<br>




## Strings

The [string](https://www.satyacodes/blog/javascript-string-functions/) is
another primitive data type that is used to store text data. String values are
surrounded by single quotation marks or double quotation marks.

**Syntax:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
var var_name = new String(string);
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There are different properties of methods available in String object such as:

-   **Constructor** – It returns a reference to the String function that created
    the object

-   **Length** – This returns the length of the string

-   **Prototype** – This property allows you to add properties and methods to an
    object

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
let name = new String("Welcome to satyacodes!");
console.log("Message: " +name);
console.log("Length: "+name.length);
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Output:**

`Message: Welcome to satyacodes!`  
`Length: 19`


<br>



## Arrays

An [array](https://www.satyacodes/blog/javascript-array/) is a special type of
data type that stores multiple values of different data types sequentially using
a special syntax. Array elements are identified by a unique integer called the
subscript or index of the element.

**Syntax:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
var array_name[:datatype]; //declaration
array_name = [val1,val2,valn..] //initialization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
let names: Array<string>;
names = ['John', 'Daisy', 'Rachel'];

let ids: Array<number>;
ids = [101, 700, 321];
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~


<br>



## Interfaces

The interface is a structure that defines the contract in your application. It
defines the syntax for classes to follow. It contains only the declaration of
the members and it is the responsibility of the deriving class to define the
members.

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
interface Employee {
empID: number;
empName: string;
getSalary: (number) => number; // arrow function
getManagerName(number): string;
}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the above example, the **Employee** interface includes two properties
**empID** and **empName**. It also includes a method declaration **getSalaray**
using an **arrow function** which includes one number parameter and a number
return type. The **getManagerName** method is declared using a normal function.

<br>


##  Classes

TypeScript introduced classes so that they can avail the benefits of
object-oriented techniques like encapsulation and abstraction. The class in
TypeScript is compiled to plain JavaScript functions by the TypeScript compiler
to work across platforms and browsers.

A class includes the following:

-   **Constructor**

-   **Properties**

-   **Methods**

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
class Employee {
empID: number;
empName: string;

constructor(ID: number, name: string) {
this.empName = name;
this.empID = ID;
}

getSalary() : number {
return 40000;
}
}
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

<br>

### Inheritance

TypeScript supports
[Inheritance](https://www.satyacodes/blog/inheritance-in-javascript/) as it is
the ability of a program to create new classes from an existing class. The class
that is extended to create newer classes is called the parent class or the super
class. The newly created classes are called the child or sub classes.

A class inherits from another class using the ‘extends’ keyword. Child classes
inherit all properties and methods except private members and constructors from
the parent class. But, TypeScript does not support multiple inheritance.

**Syntax:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
class child_class_name extends parent_class_name
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
class Person {
name: string;

constructor(name: string) {
this.name = name;
}
}

class Employee extends Person {
empID: number;

constructor(empID: number, name:string) {
super(name);
this.empID = empid;
}

displayName():void {
console.log("Name = " + this.name + ", Employee ID = " + this.empID);
}
}

let emp = new Employee(701, "Jason");
emp.displayName(); // Name =Jason, Employee ID = 701
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Now that you know about classes, let’s move ahead with this TypeScript Tutorial
and learn about Objects.


<br>

## Objects

An object is an instance that contains a different set of key-value pairs. The
values can be scalar values or functions or even an array of other objects.

**Syntax:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
var object_name = {
key1: -value1”, //scalar value
key2: -value”,
key3: function() {
//functions
},
key4:[-content1”, -content2”]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An object can contain scalar values, functions and structures like arrays and
tuples.

**Example:**

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
var person = {
firstname:"Danny",
lastname:"Green"
};
//access the object values
console.log(person.firstname)
console.log(person.lastname)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

On compiling, it will generate the same code in JavaScript.

**Output:**

`Danny`  
`Green`

