---
title: Java- Interface Enhancements
permalink: "/java/interface-enhancements"
key: java-interface-enhancements
categories:
- Java
tags:
- Java
---

Interface Enhancements
=========================

### 1.interface Default Methods: Java 8

-   Java 8 allows you to add non-abstract methods in interfaces. These methods
    must be declared **default** keyword.

-   Default methods enable you to add new functionality to the interfaces of
    your libraries and ensure binary compatibility with code written for older
    versions of those interfaces.
    
    ```java
    interface Vehicle {
    default void move() {
        System.out.println("Def. move");
      }
    }
    class Car implements Vehicle {}
    
    class Bus implements Vehicle {@Override
      public void move() {
        System.out.println("Bus. Move");
      }
    }
    public class Test {
      public static void main(String[] args) {
        new Car().move();
        new Bus().move();
      }
    }
    ```


-   `Vehicle` interface defines a method `move()` and provided a default
    implementation as well. If any class implements this interface then it need
    not to implement its own version of `move()` method. It can directly
    call `instance.move()`.

-   If class willingly wants to customize the behavior of move() method then it
    can provide its own custom implementation and override the method by
    removing **‘`default`’** keyword

<br>

### 2.interface Static Methods: Java 8

Java interface static method is similar to default method except that **we can’t
override them in the implementation classes**. This feature helps us in avoiding
inconsistent results in case of poor implementation in implementation classes
```java
interface Vehicle {
default void move() {
    System.out.println("Def. move");
  }
  static void year() {
    System.out.println("Def. 1998");
  }
}
class Test implements Vehicle {@Override
  public void move() {
    System.out.println("Bus. Move");
  }
  static void year() {
    System.out.println("2018");
  }
  public static void main(String[] args) {
    Vehicle.year();
    year();
  }
}------------------
Def.1998
2018
```

Note that year() is a simple class method, it’s not overriding the interface
method. For example, if we will add [@Override
annotation](https://www.journaldev.com/817/java-override-annotation) to the
year() method, it will result in compiler error.

<br>

### 3.Interface Private Methods – Java 9

private methods will improve code re-usability inside interfaces. For example,
if two default methods needed to share code, a private interface method would
allow them to do so, but without exposing that private method to it’s
implementing classes.

Using private methods in interfaces have four rules:

-   Private interface method cannot be abstract.

-   Private method can be used only inside interface.

-   Private static method can be used inside other static and non-static
    interface methods.

-   Private non-static methods cannot be used inside private static methods.
```java
public interface Calculator
{
    default int addEvenNumbers(int... nums) {
        return add(n -> n % 2 == 0, nums);
    }
  
    default int addOddNumbers(int... nums) {
        return add(n -> n % 2 != 0, nums);
    }
      private int add(IntPredicate predicate, int... nums) {
        return IntStream.of(nums)
                .filter(predicate)
                .sum();
    }
}
```


<br>

### 4.Functional Interfaces

Functional interfaces are also called *Single Abstract Method interfaces (SAM
Interfaces)*. As name suggest, they permit exactly one abstract method inside
them.

Java 8 introduces an annotation i.e. `@FunctionalInterface` which can be used for
compiler level errors when the interface you have annotated violates the
contracts of Functional Interface.
```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface Test {
    public void firstWork();
}
```

Please note that a functional interface is valid even if
the @FunctionalInterface annotation would be omitted. It is only for informing
the compiler to enforce single abstract method inside interface.
