---
title: Java- Data Hiding, Abstraction, Encapsulation
permalink: "/java/abstraction-encapsulation"
key: java-abstraction-encapsulation
categories:
- Java
tags:
- Java
---

OOPS - Data Hiding, Abstraction, Encapsulation
=================================================

1.Data Hiding 
--------------

Hiding of data, so that out side person can’t access our data. The main
advantage of data hiding is we can achieve security.

using **‘private’ modifier** we can achieve data hiding.
```java
class datademo
{
private double amount;
………
}
```
<br>


2.Abstraction
-------------

Hiding implementation details is nothing but abstraction. The main advantages of
abstraction are we can achieve **security** as we are not highlighting internal
implementation.

using **interfaces & abstract classes** we can achieve data Abstraction.

<br>

3.Encapsulation
----------------

Wrapping data and methods with in classes in combination with implementation
**hiding** (through access control) is often called encapsulation.

If a class follows Data Hiding and Abstraction such type of class is said to be
‘Encapsulated’ class. 
> **Encapsulation = Data Hiding + Abstraction**

<br>

**Abstraction VS Encapsulation**

-   Abstraction is more about ‘**What**‘ a class can do. [**Idea**]

-   Encapsulation is more about ‘**How**‘ to achieve that functionality.
    [**Implementation**]

```java
class Account {

private int balance;

public void setBalance(int balance) {

this.balance = balance; // validating the user & his permissions.

}

public int getBalance() {

return balance; // validating the user and his permissions.

}

}
```
Encapsulation essentially has both i.e. information hiding and implementation
hiding.

<br>

###### Tightly Encapsulated Class

A class is said to be tightly encapsulated iff **all the data members declared
as private**.

-   Only **data memebers should private**. getters, setters & other methods are
    **not required to be private.**

-   if the parent class is not tightly encapsulated then no child class is tightly encapsulated.

```java
class x {
	int i = 0;
}
class y extends x {
	//int i -> hides as public
	private int j = 20;
}
class z extends y {
	//int i -> hides as public
	private int k = 30;
}
```

    
