---
title: Java- Exception Handling
permalink: "/java/exception-handling"
key: java-exception-handling
categories:
- Java
tags:
- Java
---

Exception Handling
=====================

The unexpected unwanted event which disturbs entire flow of the program is known
as “Exception"

-   If we are not handling exception, the program may terminate abnormally
    without releasing allocated resources.

-   Exception handling means it is not repairing an exception, just providing
    alternative way to continue the program execution normally.

<br>

<u>Common scenarios where exceptions may occur</u>

If we divide any number by zero, there occurs an **ArithmeticException**.
```java
int a=50/0;//ArithmeticException
```


If we have null value in any variable, performing any operation occurs a
**NullPointerException**.
```java
String s=null;  
System.out.println(s.length());//NullPointerException
```


The wrong formatting of any value, may occur **NumberFormatException**.
```java
String s="abc";  
int i=Integer.parseInt(s);//NumberFormatException
```


If you are inserting any value in the wrong index, it would result
**ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException**
```java
int a[]=new int[5];  
a[10]=50; //ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException
```

<br>

Default Exception Handling
--------------------------

-   Whenever an exception raised, the method in which it is raised is
    responsible for the preparation of exception object by including the
    following information

    ```dos
    Name of Exception.
    Description.
    Location of Exception
    ```


-   After preparation of Exception Object, the method handovers the object to
    the **JVM**, JVM will check for Exception handling code in that method.

-   If the method doesn’t contain any exception handling code, then JVM
    terminates that method abnormally and removes corresponding entry from the
    stack.

-   JVM will check for exception handling code in the caller and if the caller
    method also doesn’t contain exception handling code then JVM terminates that
    caller method abnormally and removes corresponding entry from the stack.

-   This process will be continued until main method, if the main method also
    doesn’t contain any exception handling code then JVM terminates main method
    abnormally.

-   Just before terminating the program JVM handovers the responsibilities of
    exception handling to default exception handler.

-   Default exception handler prints the error in the following format.
    ```java
    Name of Exception: Description
    stackTrace
    ```

