---
title: Java- Exception Handling Interview Questions
permalink: "/java/exception-handling-interview-questions"
key: java-exception-handling-interview-questions
categories:
- Java
tags:
- Java
---

21.Exception Handling Interview Questions
=========================================

**What will happen if you put System.exit(0) on try or catch block?**

In normal Finally block will always execute. The only case finally block is not
executed is **System.exit(0).** In advanced case it will execute in following
case.

By Calling System.exit(0) in try or catch block, its stops execution & throws
**SecurityException**.

-   If System.exit(0) **NOT throws security exception, then finally block Won’t
    be executed**

-   But, if **System.exit(0) throws security exception then finally block will
    be executed**.

**java.lang.System.exit()** will terminates the currently executing program by
JVM.

-   **exit(0)** : Generally used to indicate successful termination.

-   **exit(1) or exit(-1) or any other non-zero value** –indicates unsuccessful
    termination.

**What happens if we put return statement on try/catch? Will finally block
execute?**

Yes, finally block will execute even if you put a return statement in the try
block or catch block.
```java
try {
  //try block
  ...
  return success;
}
catch(Exception ex) {
  //catch block
  .....
  return failure;
}
finally {
  System.out.println("Inside finally");
}
```

The answer is yes. **finally** block will execute. The only case where it will
not execute is when it encounters **System.exit().**

**What happens when a finally block has a return statement?**

Finally block overrides the value returned by try and catch blocks.

public static int myTestingFuncn(){

```java
try{
....
return 5;

}

finally {
....
return 19;
}

}
```


This program would return value 19 since the value returned by try has
been overridden by finally.

**Why do you think Checked Exception exists in Java, since we can also convey
error using RuntimeException?**  
**Most of checked exceptions are in java.io package**, which make sense because
if you request any system resource and its not available, than a robust program
must be able to handle that situation gracefully.

By declaring **IOException** as checked Exception, Java ensures that your should
provide that gracefully exception handling. Another possible reason could be to
ensuring that system resources like file descriptors, which are limited in
numbers, should be released as soon as you are done with that using catch or
finally block

**Have you faced OutOfMemoryError in Java? How did you solved that?**  
**OutOfMemoryError in** Java is a subclass of java.lang.VirtualMachineError and
JVM throws java.lang.OutOfMemoryError when it **ran out of memory in the heap.**

An easy way to solve OutOfMemoryError in java is to [increase the maximum heap
size](http://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2011/08/increase-heap-size-maven-ant.html) by
using JVM options "-Xmx512M", this will immediately solve your OutOfMemoryError.
