---
title: Java- java-util-Arrays
permalink: "/java/java-util-arrays"
key: java-java-util-arrays
categories:
- Java
tags:
- Java
---

Java.util.Arrays 
====================

This class contains various methods for manipulating arrays (such as sorting and
searching). This class also contains a static factory that allows arrays to be
viewed as lists.

-   **Arrays to list**

-   **Sorting & Searching**

-   **Copying & filling**

-   **public static String toString(int[] a)** The string representation
    consists of a list of the array’s elements, enclosed in square brackets
    (“[]").
    ```java
    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {		 
    		 String a[] = {"a", "b", "c"};
    		 System.out.println("OLD \t :"+a.toString());
    		 System.out.println("New \t :"+Arrays.toString(a));
    	}
    --------------------------------------	
    OLD 	 :[Ljava.lang.String;@6d06d69c
    New 	 :[a, b, c]
    ```

-   **public static List asList(T… a) -** This method returns a **fixed-size
    list** backed by the specified array**. adding or removing elements from the
    list aren’t allowed** on this created list, you can only read or overwrite
    the elements

-   **public static void sort(int[] a)** – Sorts the specified array into
    ascending numerical order.

-   **public static void sort(int[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex)** If we wish
    to sort a specified range of the array into ascending order. 

-   **public static int binarySearch(int[] a, int key)** Returns an int value
    for the index of the specified key in the specified array. Returns a
    negative number if the specified key is not found in the array.

-   **public static int[] copyOf(int[] original, int newLength)** Copies the
    specified array and length. It truncates the array if provided length is
    smaller and pads if provided.

-   **public static int[] copyOfRange(int[] original, int from, int to)** Copies
    the specified range of the specified array into a new array

-   **public static void fill(int[] a, int val)**Fills all elements of the
    specified array with the specified value.

-   **public static void fill(int[] a, int fromIndex, int toIndex, int val)** –
    Fills elements of the specified array with the specified value from the
    fromIndex element, but not including the toIndex element.

-   [static boolean equals(Object[] a, Object[]
    a2)](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/java/util/arrays_equals_object.htm)
    **-** It will compare the Content of two arrays & must be in same Order
    ```java
    public static void main(String[] args) throws Exception {       
        String a[] = {"a", "b", "c"};
        String b[] = {"a", "b", "c"};
        String c[] = {"c", "b", "a"};
        System.out.println("OLD : "+a.equals(b));
        System.out.println("New : "+Arrays.equals(a, b));
        System.out.println("Wrong Order : "+Arrays.equals(a, c));
        //It will compare the Content & must be in same Order
       }  
    ------------------------   
    OLD : false
    New : true
    Wrong Order : false
    ```


-   **static int hashCode(Object[] a)-** This method returns a hash code based
    on the contents of the specified array.
