---
title: Java- java-util-Collections
permalink: "/java/java-util-collections"
key: java-java-util-collections
categories:
- Java
tags:
- Java
---

java.util.Collections class
==============================

This class consists exclusively of static methods that operate on or return
collections. It contains polymorphic algorithms that operate on collections,
"wrappers", which return a new collection backed by a specified collection, and
a few other odds and ends.

The methods of this class all throw a NullPointerException if the collections or
class objects provided to them are null.

-   **Create List/Set/Map from Arrays**

-   **Converting List/Set/Map to Synchronized & unmodifiable**

-   **Sorting & Searching**

-   **Reverse, shuffle, min,max,copy**
```java
List<String> list = List.of("foo", "bar", "baz");

Set<String> set = Set.of("foo", "bar", "baz");

Map<String, String> map = Map.of("foo", "a", "bar", "b", "baz", "c");

Map<String, String> map = Map.ofEntries(
  new AbstractMap.SimpleEntry<>("foo", "a"),
  new AbstractMap.SimpleEntry<>("bar", "b"),
  new AbstractMap.SimpleEntry<>("baz", "c"));
```



<br>

1.**static void sort(List list1):** Sorts the list **list1** into ascending
    order according to the natural sequence (a before b or 1 before 2) of the
    elements.

2.**static int binarySearch(List list1, Object obj1):** Searches
    the **obj1** in the list **list1**. Returns the index number of the
    element **obj1**. Before applying this method, **the elements must be
    sorted** earlier with **sort()** method

3.**static Collection synchronizedCollection(Collection col1):** Returns a
    synchronized version of collection **col1**. It is used for thread-safe
    operations.We have following specific Methods like

-   **synchronizedList()**

-   **synchronizedSet()**

-   **synchronizedSortedSet()**

-   **synchronizedMap()**

-   **synchronizedSortedMap()**

**4. static Collection unmodifiableCollection(Collection col1):** make any
Collection to unmodifiable (read-only) version of **col1ection**. Any methods
like add() or remove(), if applied
throws [UnsupportedOperationException](http://way2java.com/collections/unsupportedoperationexception/)
We have following specific Methods like

-   **unmodifiableList()**

-   **unmodifiableSet()**

-   **unmodifiableSortedSet()**

-   **unmodifiableMap(),**

-   **unmodifiableSortedMap()., etc**

**5.static void reverse(List list1):** Existing order of the elements in the
    list **list1** are reversed.

**6.static void shuffle(List list1):** Shuffles the existing elements
    of **list1** **randomly**. For repeated execution of the method, elements
    with different order are obtained.

**7.static void swap(List list1, int index1, int
    index2):** List **list1** elements at index
    numbers **index1** and **index2** are swapped.

**8.static void fill(List list1, Object obj1):** Replaces all the elements
    of **list1** with **obj1**. Earlier elements are lost. This method is used
    to fill all the elements with the same values.

**9.static void copy(List destination1, List source1):** Copies all the
    elements of List **source1**into the **destination1** list. It is
    like [arraycopy()](http://way2java.com/arrays/java-array-copying/) method.

**10.static Object min(Collection col1):** Returns the element with the minimum
    value

**11.static Object max(Collection col1):** Returns the element with the maximum
    value

**12.static void rotate(List list1, int dist1):** Rotates the elements in the
    list **list1** by the specified distance **dist1**.

**13.static boolean replaceAll(List list1, Object oldObj, Object
    newObj):** Replaces the old element **oldObj** with the new
    element **newObj** in the list **list1** (all the occurrences). Returns true
    when the operation is successful (when the **oldObj **exists).

**14.static int frequency(Collection col1, Object obj1):** Checks how many
    times **obj1** exists in collection **col1**, returns as an integer value.

**15.static boolean disjoint(Collection col1, Collection col2):** Returns true
    if the collection classes **col1** and **col2** do not have any common
    elements. Introduced with [JDK
    1.5](http://way2java.com/java-versions-2/jdk-1-5-java-se-5-version/).

**16.static boolean addAll(Collection col1, Object obj1):** Here, obj1 can be a
    single element or an array. Adds **obj1** to the collection **col1**.
