---
title: Java- Stream API
permalink: "/java/stream-api"
key: java-stream-api
categories:
- Java
tags:
- Java
---

Stream API
=============

Java lambda expressions are new in Java 8. **Java lambda expressions are Java's
first step into functional programming.**

Java lambda expressions are commonly used to implement simple event listeners /
callbacks, or in functional programming with the [Java Streams
API](http://tutorials.jenkov.com/java-collections/streams.html)

<br>

Functional Interfaces
---------------------
```java
Runnable r = new Runnable(){
 	@Override
 	public void run() {
  System.out.println("My Runnable");
 	}};
```

If you look at the above code, the actual part of the code is inside run()
method. Rest all of the code is because of the way java programs are structured.

**Java 8 Functional Interfaces and Lambda Expressions** help us in writing
smaller and cleaner code by removing a lot of **boiler-plate** code.

-   **An interface with exactly one abstract method is called Functional
    Interface**. 

-   **@FunctionalInterface annotation** is added so that we can mark an
    interface as functional interface.

-   If the interface is annotated with **@FunctionalInterface** annotation and
    we try to have more than one abstract method, **it throws compiler error**.

-   The major benefit of java 8 functional interfaces is that we can
    use **lambda expressions** to instantiate them and avoid using bulky
    anonymous class implementation

Java 8 has defined a lot of functional interfaces
in **java.util.function** package. Some of the useful java 8 functional
interfaces are Predicate, Function, Consumer, Supplier, 

<br>

### java.util.function Package:

The java.util.function package in Java 8 contains many built-in functional
interfaces like-

**1.Predicate**: The Predicate interface has an abstract method **test()** which
gives a **Boolean** value as a result for the specified argument. Its prototype
is
```java
public Predicate
{
   public boolean test(T  t);
 }
```


**2.Function**: The Function interface has an abstract method **apply** which
takes argument of **one type T** and returns a result of **another type R**. Its
prototype is
```java
public interface Function 
{
   public R apply(T t);
}
```


**3.Consumer Interface:**  It accepts an input and returns no result.
```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface Consumer {
    void accept(T t);
}
```


And it contains default method **andThen**(Consumer<? super T> after)

**4.Supplier Interface**: In some scenarios we have **no input** but expected to
**return an output**. Those situations **Supplier<T>** can be used without the
need to define a new functional interface every time.
```java
@FunctionalInterface
public interface Supplier<T> {
    T get();
}
```


**5.BinaryOperator**: The BinaryOperator interface has an abstract method
**apply** which takes two arguments and returns **a result of same type**. Its
prototype is
```java
public interface BinaryOperator 
{
     public T apply(T x, T y);
}
```
