---
title: Java- Lambdas
permalink: "/java/lambdas"
key: java-lambdas
categories:
- Java
tags:
- Java
---

Lambdas
==========

Lambda’s are used to provide the **implementation of Functional interface, Less
coding**.

Lambda Expressions syntax is **(argument) -> (body)**. Now let’s see how we can
write above anonymous Runnable using lambda expression.
```java
Runnable r1 = () -> System.out.println("My Runnable");
```


-   The body of a lambda expression can contain zero, one or more statements.

-   When there is a single statement curly brackets are Optional and the return
    type of the anonymous function is the same as that of the body expression.

-   When there are more than one statements, then these must be enclosed in
    curly brackets (a code block) and the return type of the anonymous function
    is the same as the type of the value returned within the code block, or void
    if nothing is returned

**1.Zero parameter:**
```java
() -> System.out.println("Zero parameter lambda");
```


**2.One parameter:–**
```java
(p) -> System.out.println("One parameter: " + p);
```
  It is not mandatory to use parentheses, if the type of that variable can be inferred from the context

**3.Multiple parameters -**
```java
(p1, p2) -> System.out.println("Multiple parameters: " + p1 + ", " + p2);
```

<br>

<u>Java Lambda Expression Example: ForEach Loop</u>

Java provides a new method forEach() to iterate the elements. It is defined in
Iterable and Stream interface. **It is a default method defined in the Iterable
interface**. Collection classes which extends Iterable interface can use forEach
loop to iterate elements.
```java
default void forEach(Consumer<super T>action)
```


*“performs the given action for each element of the Iterable until all elements
have been processed or the action throws an exception."*
```java
public class LambdaExpressionExample7{  
    public static void main(String[] args) {            
        List<String> list=new ArrayList<String>();  
        list.add("ankit");  
        list.add("mayank");  
        list.add("irfan");  
        list.add("jai");            
        list.forEach(  
            (n)->System.out.println(n)  
        );  
    }  
}
```
This code will print every element of the list. You can even replace lambda
expression with [method
reference](http://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2013/11/java-8-tutorials-resources-and-examples-lambda-expression-stream-api-functional-interfaces.html) because
we are passing the lambda parameter as it is to the System.out.println() method as `list.forEach(System.out::println);`

**If both Passing Paramter & Priniting parameter is same we can use
System.out::println**

-   **forEach() is a terminal operation**, which means once calling forEach()
    method on stream, **you cannot call another method**. It will result in a
    runtime exception.

-   When you call forEach() on parallel stream, the [order of
    iteration](http://java67.blogspot.com/2014/05/3-examples-to-loop-map-in-java-foreach.html)** is
    not guaranteed**, but you can ensure that ordering by
    calling forEachOrdered() method.

-   There are two forEach() method in Java 8, one defined inside Iterable and
    other inside java.util.stream.Stream class. If purpose of forEach() is just
    iteration then you can directly call it
    e.g. list.forEach() or set.forEach() but if you want to perform some
    operations e.g. filter or map then better first get the stream and then
    perform that operation and finally call forEach() method.

-   Use of forEach() results in readable and cleaner code.


<br>

<u>Java Lambda Expression Example: Comparator</u>  
```java
Collections.sort(list,(p1,p2)->{  
    return p1.name.compareTo(p2.name);  
    });  
    for(Product p:list){  
        System.out.println(p.id+" "+p.name+" "+p.price); 
    }
```
