---
title: JDBC- JDBC API
permalink: "/jdbc/jdbc-api"
key: jdbc-jdbc-api
categories:
- JDBC
tags:
- JDBC
---

JDBC API
==========

DriverManager class
-----------------------

-   The DriverManager class acts as an interface between user and drivers

-   It keeps track of the drivers that are available and handles establishing a
    connection between a database and the appropriate driver.

-   The DriverManager class maintains a list of Driver classes that have
    registered themselves by calling the method
    **DriverManager.registerDriver().**

**Methods**

1.  **public static void registerDriver(Driver driver):**

2.  **public static void deregisterDriver(Driver driver):**

3.  **public static Connection getConnection(String url):**

4.  **public static Connection getConnection(String url,String uname,String
    pwd)**



# Connection interface

A Connection is the session between java application and database. The
Connection interface is a factory of Statement, PreparedStatement, and
DatabaseMetaData i.e.

-   **Statement createStatement()**

-   **PreparedStatement prepareStatement(String sql)**

-   **CallableStatement prepareCall(String sql)**

-   **Blob createBlob()**

-   **Clob createClob()**

-   **String getSchema()**

-   **DatabaseMetaData getMetaData()**

-   **void close()**

-   **void commit()**

-   **void rollback()**

-   **void setAutoCommit(boolean autoCommit)**

-   **boolean getAutoCommit()**

All above statement related methods can have

-   **ResultSet.TYPE_SCROLL_SENSITIVE** used to move ResultSet Both Directions

-   **ResultSet.CONCUR_UPDATABLE** used to perform DML operations on ResultSet

# Statement interface


-   The Statement interface provides methods to execute queries with the
    database.

-   The statement interface is a factory of ResultSet

-   it provides factory method to get the object of ResultSet

-   **public ResultSet executeQuery(String sql):**

    Is used to execute **SELECT query**. It returns the object of ResultSet.

-   **public int executeUpdate(String sql):**

    Is used to execute DML, **CREATE, DROP, INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE** etc.

-   **public boolean execute(String sql):**

    Is used to execute queries that may return multiple results. **>1** if
    success, **0** on fail

-   **public int[] executeBatch():**

    Is used to execute batch of commands.


# ResultSet interface


-   The object of ResultSet maintains a cursor pointing to a row of a table.

-   Initially, cursor points to before the first row.

-   By default, ResultSet object can be **moved forward only** and it **is not
    updatable**.

    -   **public XXX getXXX(int rowIndex):**

    -   **public XXX getXXX(String rowName):**

    -   public boolean next()

    -   public boolean previous()

    -   public boolean first()

    -   public boolean last()
