---
title: WebServices- JAX-RS Annotations
permalink: "/webservices/jax-rs-annotations"
key: webservices-jax-rs-annotations
categories:
- Webservices
tags:
- Webservices
---

JAX-RS -Annotations
=====================

We have many annotations. But below are the majorly used annotations in RESTFul
webservices

-   **@Path(‘Path‘)**

-   **@GET**

-   **@POST**

-   **@PUT**

-   **@DELETE**

-   **@Produces(MediaType.TEXT_PLAIN [, more-types])**

-   **@Consumes(type[, more-types])**

-   **@PathParam()**

-   **@QueryParam()**

-   **@MatrixParam()**

-   **@FormParam()**

**1.@Path()**

-   Its a Class & Method level of annotation

-   This will check the path next to the base URL
```java
Syntax: 
http://localhost:(port)/<YourApplicationName>/<UrlPattern In Web.xml>/<path>
```


Here **<path>** is the part of URI, and this will be identified by @path
annotation at class/method level.

**2.@GET**  
Its a method level of annotation, this annotation indicates that the following
method should respond to the HTTP GET request only, if we annotate our method
with @GET, the execution flow will enter that following method if we send GET
request from the client

**3.@POST**  
It’s a method level of annotation, this annotation indicates that the following
method should respond to the HTTP POST request only.

**4.@PUT**  
It’s a method level of annotation, this annotation indicates that the following
method should respond to the HTTP PUT request only.

**5.@DELETE**  
It’s a method level of annotation, this annotation indicates that the following
method should respond to the HTTP DELETE request only.

**6.@Produces**  
It’s a method or field level annotation, this tells which **MIME** type is
delivered by the method annotated with **@GET**. Whenever we send a HTTP GET
request to our RESTful service, it will invokes particular method and produces
the output in different formats. There you can specifies in what are all formats
(MIME) your method can produce the output, by using @produces annotation.

**Remember: We will use @Produces annotation for GET requests only.**

**7.@Consumes**  
This is a class and method level annotation; this will define which MIME type is
consumed by the particular method. It means in which format the **method can
accept the input from the client**.

*@PathParam, @QueryParam, @MatrixParam* annotations will come into picture in
case if we are passing the input values to the restful service through the URL

**8.@PathParam**  
```html
http://localhost:8001/<Rest Service Name>/rest/customers/100/Satya
```

Here the two parameters appear in the end of the above URL [100 & Satya], which
are separated by forward slash **(/)** are called as **path parameters**

**9.@QueryParam**  
```html
http://localhost:8001/…/rest/customers?custNo=100&custName=Satya
```
If the client sends an input in the form of query string in the URL, then those
parameters are called as **Query Parameters**. If you observe the above syntax,
client passing **custNo=100&custName=Satya** started after question mark **(?)**
symbol and each parameter is separated by **&** symbol, those parameters are
called as query parameters.

**10.@MatrixParam**  
```html
http://localhost:8001/…/rest/customers;custNo=100;custName=Satya
```
Matrix parameters are another way defining the parameters to be added to URL. If
you observe the above syntax, client is passing two parameters each are
separated by **semicolon (;),** these parameters are called as matrix
parameters. **Remember these parameters may appear any where in the path**.

**11.@ FormParam**  
If we have a HTML form having two input fields and submit button. Lets client
enter those details and submit to the RESTful web service. Then the rest service
will extract those details by using this **@FormParam** annotation.
